# Accelerating Fast Fourier Transform

A project under the Research Experiences in Computational Science, Engineering, and Mathematics (RECSEM), 2018. We designed and implemented a mixed-precision algorithm that utilizes the tensor cores to accelerate fast Fourier transform.

### ./C
Contains some C code implementing matrix data struture and a test program. It is used to simplify operations in earlier versions, and is removed in our final implementation.

### ./CUDA
Contains most of the project codes. For the majority of programs, compile them using command: `nvcc -o output filename -lcufft -lcublas`. Make sure you are using CUDA 9.2 or above. Some programs may need modification to adapt to location change of header files.

* The files in `alternative/` are experimental programs that try to optimize the implementation by using the static splitting method or by calling magma library. These trails are not adopted in our final implementation.

* `cublas_gemm_batchstride_test.cu` is a program to test `cublasGemmStridedBatchedEx` before we added it into our main implementation.

* `cuFFT_2D_test.cu` is testing 2D FFT in single and half precision type, using cuFFT library.

* `cuFFT_32_16_compare_test.cu` is testing 1D cuFFT in single and half precision type, using cuFFT library.

* The filenames starting with `debug_` indicate that it's a temporary file for debugging.

* `fft2_fp32_multiple.cu` is an attempt to implement radix-2 fft. It is not used in final implmentation.

* The series of files starting with `fft4_` are step-by-step implementation of the base case of radix-4 fft. We first implemented the single precision 1 vector version (`fft_fp32_vector.cu`), then added in batch execution support (`fft4_fp32_multiple.cu`). After that we included the splitting and performed multiplication in half precision (`fft4_fp16.cu`). Later we added `fft4_improved_fp16.cu`, which uses unified memory.

* The files with name starting by `gfft_` are implementation of general input fft (complete fft instead of the base case). The first runnable implementation is `gfft_using_fft4.cu`. Then we merged it with splitting and fft4 files and got `gfft_combine.cu`. Then several optimizations were performed: we made accumulation, splitting, twiddle multiplication parallel; we wrote customized transpose kernel; we also wrote a version using magma tranpose API, but did not use it in final evaluation. `GPU_run_test.cu` and `CPU_run_test_32.cu` are final version to be tested with nvprof.

* `helper/` contains matrix, vector, and constants definition. It also contains two programs demonstrating how to use matrix and vector. However, we eliminates the matrix and vector wrapper in the final implementation.

* `minimal_example_cublasgemmstridebatched.cu` is a complete and minimal example that shows the batch size limit of the cublasgemmstridebatched function. We find that under our setting, cublasgemmstridebatched returns error if batch size is greater than 65534.

* There are two files in `nvidia_helper/`, which are copied from nvidia sample code. `checkCudaErrors.h` defines `checkCudaErrors()`, which is used when calling most CUDA functions. `helper_string.h` allows us to get command line parameters.

* The files with name starting by `split_` are step-by-step implementation of the dynamic splitting algorithm. The pseudo code can be found in our extended abstract. The order is: `split_one_number.cu` -> `split_one_vector.cu` -> `split_one_vector_using_vector.cu` -> `split_multiple_vectors_using_matrix.cu`. They are CPU code, which are different from our final GPU kernel implementation.

* `test_performance/` contains programs that compare speed and accuracy of implementations. Most names are self-explainable. The results presented in our paper is generated by `improved_gfft_and_cufft.cu`. The results in 2D FFT poster are from `2d_gfft_and_cufft.cu`.

* `timing_my_transpose.cu` is a complete gfft program, but it calculates and prints the time cost by calling self-implemented transpose kernel at each level.

* `util/` contains header files written by us that are included in testing programs. `my_include_combined` includes general header files like stdio and CUDA runtime. `my_include` is an earlier version that also includes splitting header, fft4 header, etc. Most code are converted from `.cu` implementation. `32_gfft`, which implements cooley–Tukey algorithm without splitting, is to evaluate splitting benefits and overhead. Other files are explained through their names.

### ./Experiment
Contains codes that generate experimental results for paper writing. `checkCudaErrors.h` and `helper_string.h` contain helper functions. `cufft_fail_to_speedup/` contains experiment code and results to show cuFFT does not attain the same level of acceleration as cuBLAS.

### ./matlab
Contains matlab simulation programs. We write matlab codes to make sure the algorithm is correct before starting CUDA implementation. Most of the codes are provided by Dr. D'Azevedo.

### ./performance_result
Contains testing results of accuracy or speed. The filename starting with `nvprof_` indicate that they are generated by nvprof profiler. The names generally indicate the corresponding programs in `./CUDA`, and the test configurations are specified before performance results.

`event_timing_my_transpose.txt` records the time cost by calling self-implemented transpose kernel. The other two files with name ended with `_wrong` are faulty results as the errorr are not initialized with 0.

### ./reference
Contains useful CUDA codes provided by NVIDIA. `cuda_fp16` is the definition of half precision type. `helper_cuda` contains useful helper functions, and is included in our implementation programs. The other directories are copied from CUDA samples, which helped us get familiar with CUDA programming.

### ./result
Contains some results printed by programs in `./CUDA`. The filename usually indicates the corresponding program. We compared these results with matlab fft output to verify the correctness and accuracy of computation.